and Chris Apple.
We're going to be talking today
about data synchronization.
Hello.
Oops,
Okay, this is the second talk
on Data Synchronization.
The first talk covered the architecture,
kind of the core concepts and the API.
Talked a lot about basically
what Sync Services is,
all the different parts
and what it means.
This talk's a bit more of a how-to.
How do you take an application
and get it to synchronize data?
Now, there's going to be a little bit
of overlap from the first talk,
so I don't know if anybody
was at the previous talk.
If you were,
feel free to doze off a little
bit as I go over things.
But I do want to make sure that we
frame all the context and all the
concepts so that it all makes sense.
So let's talk about Sync Services,
what it is.
Initially, we had three applications
that you could synchronize,
or three data types: contacts, calendars,
and bookmarks.
You could also synchronize
these to devices,
phones, iPod, and you could synchronize
them up to .Mac.
Now what we've added is the
ability for you to synchronize
your own custom applications.
So you can take your app and
you can synchronize your data.
You can either synchronize
with the existing types of
data we already provide,
so you can kind of join in on the party,
or you can sync your own data
and you can get it up to .Mac
and across to other machines.
So what are we going to show you today?
We're going to go over a
review of the syncing concepts.
This will be a bit of a refresher
if you saw the previous talk or
have read about some of this before.
But I want to make sure that I cover
the basic concepts so you know
basically what I'm talking about.
I'm going to talk about what you
need to do in an application.
I want to make sure I cover the what.
What is it that you're doing?
We'll give you a demo that will highlight
and illustrate what we just told you.
So first I'll tell you what to do,
then we'll show you what that looks like,
and then what I'm going to
do is cover how to do it.
We'll show some small code snippets
and we'll talk about exactly
how you do all these things.
When you walk away from here,
this is what I want you to take with you.
I want to make sure that I'm covering
enough of the overall architecture that
you understand what Sync Services is,
and that you understand what it means
for your application to be synchronizing.
That consists of three main things:
how to work with schemas,
if I can get that to highlight.
Data schemas are used to identify
the different types of data
that you'll be synchronizing.
So we're going to cover how you can
make your own schema and how to use
schemas that are already in the system.
How do you manage a sync session?
This is the core of the talk.
What do you do when you're
actually synchronizing your data?
We'll go into that in pretty good detail.
We're going to talk a lot today, tonight,
seems dark in here.
We're going to talk a lot
about how you trickle sync.
Trickle syncing is a way to basically
push small bits of data very frequently
so that from the user's perspective,
their data is just
constantly trickling out.
When you make changes
in your application,
you want to trickle the
changes out as soon as you can.
And when changes are made in other
applications that you're syncing with,
you want to be able to pull those
changes in transparently to the user.
I'm going to cover a
little bit of terminology.
Clearly, we need to define our terms,
so we'll introduce some of
that as we go through the talk.
And I'm also going to talk
a bit about best practices.
By that I mean things that you can do
in an application in order to provide
the user with the best experience.
Things that you can do so
that syncing goes smoothly,
fairly transparently,
and so that when problems occur,
the user has choices on what they can do.
[Transcript missing]
Each user on each machine
will have a truth database.
That means if you,
as a specific Mac OS user,
have two different machines
that you're syncing,
you'll have a truth
database on each machine.
And if you have more than
one user on a machine,
each one of those users has
their own truth database.
And the truth is an aggregate.
It's an aggregate of all the data
that's synced by every client.
So although your client
might be syncing some data,
you might not sync every
field or attribute that's in
a certain set of record types.
You might sync contacts,
but you only sync a few of the fields.
There might be a richer client
that syncs many more fields.
So the aggregate is the
combination of everything,
even if your client
isn't synchronizing it.
We have three main sync modes: Fast Sync,
Slow Sync, and Refresh.
Fast Sync is the most desirable.
That's done when what you want to push
is just the changes from the last sync.
If you're able to keep track of
deltas between sync operations,
then when you synchronize,
you can just push up changes.
Added this record, deleted this record,
made a mod to this record.
So you push up little changes,
and then you pull down from the
engine only what's changed there.
If you don't keep track of the deltas,
or if it's the very first
time you're syncing,
you'll need to do a slow sync.
When you do a slow sync,
you push up all of your records.
What the engine does is it looks at
all the records you're pushing up
and compares them to the last set of
records that your client had pushed.
If you don't push a record up
that you had previously sent,
that's treated as a delete.
It also compares all the fields so it
can tell what records have changed.
This is clearly a fairly
expensive operation,
especially if you have
thousands of records.
So it's always more desirable
to do a fast sync when you can.
But there are a few cases where
you'll have to do a slow sync,
and I'll talk about that in a little
more detail as we go through the slides.
Finally, you can do a refresh sync.
This is typically done when you've
lost all the data on your machine
or you've lost all semblance of
state regarding your sync sessions.
If this happens,
you can tell the sync server,
"Forget anything you ever knew about me.
I'm just going to refresh.
We're going to start over as if we've
never synced before." Typically,
you'll be doing that to pull
everything down from the engine
so you can reset your state.
But there are cases where you
might have added a few records and
you want to also push those up to
the engine but still do a refresh.
For instance,
you may have lost a battery or power
in a phone and lost all the data.
But you're traveling and you've
added a couple new contacts,
so you've just got two
contacts on this phone.
You tell the engine to do a refresh sync.
You just push up your two contacts.
They're added and all of the
contacts that had initially
been in the sync engine are
pushed back down to your phone.
So with these different modes of syncing,
we give you the performance
when you need it,
we also provide security that
you'll always be able to recover
all your data and that you'll
always be able to sync every record.
Most important thing when
you're syncing is correctness.
Second most important is speed.
And most users are going to think
the most important thing is speed,
especially when things are
slow and take a long time.
But trust me,
the minute you lose some of their data,
they're going to realize
what was most important,
and that's being correct.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I was supposed to show you that before.
I'll be doing that throughout the talk,
so get used to it.
There's one other mode of syncing,
which we call Trickle Sync.
And it's not really a mode in the
same sense as the other three.
It's more like a way of life.
For your application,
if you Trickle Sync,
you routinely Fast Sync.
And there's a number of different places,
opportune moments when your
application can do a Fast Sync.
You try to do it in the background,
make it transparent to the user.
And one important point,
an application probably shouldn't ever
synchronize unless a user's told it to.
So when your application starts for the
first time and the user starts to use it,
you should provide them some
configuration so that they can say,
yes, I want to sync my data.
Now, at that point when they do,
they've given you carte blanche
to sync it whenever you want.
So you should go off and sync
small changes frequently.
We talked in the previous
presentation about how the
more frequently you can sync,
the less data you have to sync each time.
So it's more like a continuous flow that
doesn't put much load on the system.
It doesn't seem to take
a long time for the user,
and it keeps things
synchronized more expediently.
If you make changes in your app
and push them out right away,
they're available to other applications
and available to get pushed up
to .Mac right then and there.
Similarly, when changes are made
in other applications,
you'll be notified and you want to
pull them in as soon as you can so
you always have the most up-to-date
representation for the user.
So let's talk about what you need
to do in an application to sync it.
What are the five most important things,
the five main things?
I've grouped what I think are the core
fundamental pieces that you're going to
have to put into an application to sync.
The first one is setting
up a data schema.
A data schema represents the
type of records that you'll be
syncing in a canonical format
the engine can understand.
This is important for a few reasons.
Most applications have their
own way of representing data.
You could use objects all the way down.
You might archive them
or store them in a graph.
You might just have a simple text file,
comma separated values.
You could be using a database.
And all of these things are
going to be different for your
application from other applications.
But the engine needs to know one
specific way of representing this data.
So you'll define in a data schema
the set of entity types that
you're going to be synchronizing.
An entity is kind of like class for
objects and instances of classes.
An entity is the type of object and
it will have a set of attributes.
So when you sync contacts,
you'll define a contact entity,
a phone number entity,
and you'll define all
of this in a schema.
And you'll define a schema
that can be used by the engine.
Another important point about this,
when you sync,
you're not just syncing your
application to the sync engine.
You're syncing with every
other client that synchronizes.
Those clients don't want to know how
you represent your data and you don't
want to have to know how all these
other clients represent their data.
You don't want to have to know how
data is represented on a phone.
You don't want to know how
it's represented on a server.
And you don't need to.
You just need to know one way to
represent it and that's the way
that's defined in the schema.
Amen.
Second thing you have to do
is configure your application.
You could have the greatest
sync client in the world.
If you don't configure it,
nobody's going to know about it.
It's never going to run.
Configuration is actually fairly simple.
It's a combination of a static file
that defines some properties and a
very small bit of API that you use.
By configuring your client,
you're registering it with the engine,
making sure that the data schemas
that you want to use are registered,
and specifying any alerts that
you might want to get when
other clients synchronize.
It's pretty straightforward.
The fun stuff is the actual
syncing control flow.
We have a syncing state
machine API that you use.
We have a fairly
object-oriented API in general,
but the actual act of data
synchronization is a state machine.
It's a procedural API with methods
you invoke on a sync session object.
We went with a state machine with
a procedural API for flexibility.
By providing an API like this,
there's a lot of different
junctures and points where you
can opt in and out of the sync,
and you have a lot of flexibility
on how you want to do the sync.
If you get involved in a sync
operation that starts to take too long
because other clients are also syncing
and they're taking a long time,
you can opt out of the sync.
You can cancel a sync if
something goes wrong at any time.
You can complete it in the
middle and take up where you
left off on the next sync.
You have to do the sync steps in
the order we're showing you here,
but other than that, you can leave after
you push your changes.
You can stop syncing before
you pull anything down,
or you can go all the way through.
It's up to your application.
application.
I talked before about having a
data schema to represent your
data in a canonical format.
That's kind of the class.
This is the object.
When you take any of your data and want
to transform it over to the Sync Engine,
you'll be creating essentially instances,
which we call records,
of the schema types that you've defined.
When you are pushing records up,
you take the records or the
objects in your application,
you transform them into records
based on the data schema,
and these are essentially NSDictionary's.
You push these dictionaries
into the Engine,
and when you get changes back,
you'll be taking dictionaries or sets
of field changes that are represented
in something we call an iSync change,
and you'll be transforming that back
into your own record types for your app.
Finally, for fast syncing,
you need to do some state management.
If you want to fast sync,
you have to keep track of the
differences between the first sync
or the previous sync you did and
the current state of your data.
This is for both adds and deletes,
modifies being somewhat
of a special case of add.
If you've modified a
record or added a record,
you can put it on a list.
When you delete a record,
you can put the ID in a list.
When you go to sync,
you just consult these lists,
and that's all you'll have
to hand to the Engine.
I added this, I modified this,
I deleted this.
If you don't do that,
you'll have to give the
Engine every record.
So there's a few different ways
that you can maintain a state.
You could keep time stamps
on all your records.
You could keep a dirty
bit on the records.
You could have a list of
what records you've changed.
What you do is going to be something that
you'll choose that's most appropriate
for your application's data model.
I find typically keeping a list of
what's changed is very straightforward.
You'll also want to save that
list in a file if you quit out of
your application without syncing.
That way, when you restore your
application the next time,
you'll still remember the delta.
so you'll know what you can sync.
There's a few other things that
you can do too when you're syncing.
You're an application.
Whenever an application does anything,
you shouldn't just go off
and do something without the
user knowing what's going on.
So you need to provide
some sort of feedback.
Most sync operations will
hopefully be very brief.
Some of them might be so fast that
the user couldn't even detect them.
But others may take a
few seconds or longer.
So if you're engaged in
any kind of sync operation,
make sure that you put some animation
up so the user knows what's going on.
You can use a spinning bar animation.
You could put up a status pane.
You could just put some status
text somewhere so the user can
look and see what's happening.
Users tend to get very annoyed
if an app becomes unresponsive.
If you're syncing in the main
loop of your application,
the user might be clicking in a
text field trying to do something.
Even if it's just a
second or two seconds,
it'll get kind of confounding to
someone that's trying to use your
application if it doesn't respond.
But if they see something spinning,
that's kind of a cue.
Okay, something's going on here.
And they'll get used to seeing that,
and it'll be less troublesome for them.
I mentioned before about trickle syncing.
Sync often and then try to sync fast.
If you can do that in an application,
it's gonna be a much smoother
experience for the user.
So I just told you what you have to do.
But there's a lot of things
you don't have to do.
You're probably thinking, "Boy,
I have to do all these things.
What did you guys do?" Well,
we actually did quite a lot.
And I think we did a lot of the
heavy lifting so that we're going
to make it fairly straightforward
for an application to synchronize.
And these things that you don't
have to do are fairly complex.
First one is conflict management.
You don't have to worry about
conflicts between different sources.
In fact, you can treat syncing almost
as if you're in isolation.
Your application just
syncs into the engine.
If there's conflicts with
records for other clients,
we'll take care of that.
We'll notice the conflicts,
we'll keep track of them,
we'll present UI to the
user to resolve them,
and then we'll handle merging
in the conflicts correctly.
Also, you don't need to present
what will change to a user.
If you're going to
make a hundred changes,
if you're going to remove
a thousand records,
we'll pop up something we call an airbag.
It's an opportunity for the
user to opt out of that sync.
We'll tell them,
"These changes are about to be made
by this sync client." So you won't
have to worry about doing anything
to notify the user about changes
that you're making due to a sync.
You don't have to detect
duplicate records.
Sometimes when you sync two
sources for the first time,
in a very common case, is a phone,
an address book,
or a phone with calendar data,
and a calendar, you'll have the same
record on both devices,
or on both clients.
We'll detect if those are duplicates,
and we'll handle merging them together
to present them as one unified record.
So you won't end up duplicating every
contact you have just because you
synchronized a phone that happened to
have all the same contacts on it already.
You don't really have to pay attention
to other clients or worry about .Mac.
We've got a decoupled architecture
regarding all the clients.
Your client just syncs to the engine.
You worry about that.
If you get that right,
we'll fan all of your changes
out to the other clients.
We'll get the changes from them into you.
We'll take care of everything.
You don't have to do anything
special to sync to .Mac.
.Mac will automatically be able
to sync your data types up and
down to other machines as long as
you've defined a schema for them.
Okay, now I'm going to bring
Nancy Craighill up to do a demo.
She's going to illustrate many of
the things I just talked about.
You wired up?
The clicker, please.
: Sorry.
I like it.
Then we'll go to the slides first.
So we want you to feel confident
when you leave the session that you
too can write syncable applications.
So we did select a little
more sophisticated example,
not a trivial one,
so you can get the most
out of this session.
And also when you're watching the
demo and the rest of Gordie's slides,
I think it's time to begin to think
about how you might modify your existing
apps to sync and how you might create
a new application that's syncable.
Okay,
so what you're going to learn from the
demo and the rest of the talk really
is how to sync your custom objects.
You can sync, like Toby and Gordie said,
you can sync all the contacts
and calendars and bookmarks,
but we think it's a lot more exciting
if you create your own object
models and you sync those objects.
You're going to learn how to sync
relationships in your object models.
and you're going to learn how to
sync your application simultaneously.
If you combine that with
syncing your applications often,
then you'll learn how to trickle sync.
And the good news is that these
demos that you're seeing today are
available now on your Tiger Seed DVD,
so you can go to Developer, Example,
Sync Services, and if you're gung-ho,
you can open up your Xcode project
now and you can follow along because
Gordie's going to actually show a lot
of the details later that relates to the
schema files and the client description,
et cetera.
So because it's a sophisticated example,
I'm just going to take a moment to just
tell you what the architecture is and the
object-oriented model behind these apps.
So of course you have the Sync Engine and
the Truth database at the center.
We have one app we call Events.
It's just going to import iCal files
and create custom event objects.
The second application is Media Assets
and it's just going to go to any old
iPhoto library year folder and parse it.
And each of these applications has
their own local database store.
So what does the object model look like?
There's an event object.
It corresponds to a wedding or a
birthday party and a media object,
and it corresponds to a photograph
that was taken at an event.
So naturally there's a 2-1 relationship
from media to event and a 2-many
relationship from event to media.
So this is a special relationship
because if you set the 2-1
relationship from media to event,
you would expect that media
object to be added as one of the
destination objects of the 2-many
from that event to the media.
So we call this an inverse relationship.
And the good news is that Sync
Services is supporting inverse
relationships in the Sync Engine and
will maintain the integrity of inverse
relationships even if you don't.
Okay,
and then this is an example of an event.
We went to Mendocino to the beach,
and here's the photographs.
In retrospect,
this slide was probably not needed,
but I just wanted to
show off my photography.
So can we go to demo one?
All right.
So this is the events application.
It's a simple master detail interface.
I've already loaded the iCal file,
by the way.
For those of you in the back row,
I'm just going to zoom in.
Can you see that?
Event has just the title attribute,
start date, and end date.
So I'm going to point out
a couple of other things.
Down here, you see the record ID.
and below that is the client ID.
So each application
has its own client ID.
Okay, another area I want you to look at.
Over here.
Now, when you do your applications,
you're not going to have a big, old,
ugly Sync button here
and a trickle checkbox.
But we added that there because we're
going to first show this demo slowly,
step by step,
to show you the process of what's
happening between the two apps.
And then we'll speed it up later
by turning trickle syncing on.
And we also implemented a calendar view,
because you typically want to
view your events on a calendar.
So at this point,
the events application has
the local event objects.
I'm going to push the sync button.
There's going to be a progress
indicator that runs here,
and it's going to push the local event
objects out to the truth database.
And that's the end of the demo.
No.
So this must be a tiger bug
because I can't hide it.
So let me hide it like that.
Let's bring up the Media Assets app.
Okay, here's the Media Assets app.
Same thing,
it's a master detail interface.
I'll import some
and I have an iPhoto
library of 2004 photos.
Down here you see,
I don't know if it helps if I zoom in,
but basically there's a title
is one of the attributes,
the date of the media object.
The image is just a URL and
it's being shown here below.
Now there's an event pull down menu.
You can't tell,
but I'm actually pushing the mouse
on there and nothing is appearing
because this application doesn't know
anything about event objects right now.
Again, it has a record ID under here for
each record and has a client ID.
Okay, so if I now push the import button,
it's gonna push the media objects
to the truth database and it's
gonna pull out the event objects.
I do that all the time, sorry.
There we go.
So as the events just got pulled
over and populated into the menu.
So I happen to know that's Chinatown
and this picture was taken at Chinatown,
but I'm not going to make you sit there
while I set all of these relationships.
So what we did was we created
a Smart Events button,
and it's just going to run down these
media objects and assign them to the
most logical event matching the dates up.
So if you push that button,
now all my media objects have events.
So again, just to review,
we've just created two one relationships
between the media and the events
object and too many relationships
from all the event objects to the media.
Again, it's just local and
I haven't pushed it yet.
So if I push Sync,
it's going to push it out.
And then we'll bring up the events
application and the calendar view.
And when I push sync
here on the Events app,
it's going to pull both the
media objects and the too one
and the too many relationships.
And hopefully we'll see
them on the calendar there.
So let's turn on trickle
syncing on the Events app.
And then we go back to Media.
We'll import some more photos.
February, March.
OK, they're down at the bottom.
Put Smart Events,
create some more relationships.
Let's move this up to February.
OK, now when I push the Sync button,
the Events app is set to trickle sync.
So it's going to get an alert
that Media Assets is syncing,
and it will begin syncing simultaneously.
So you have to look quick.
There'll be a progress
indicator over here.
There'll be another progress
And there's the photos.
Okay, now we'll go back to events.
This is a multi-day event,
Tahoe skiing trip.
Let's say we want to
change the name of that,
but I want to show this off,
so I'm going to find Tahoe
skiing over here too.
And let's change that to winter.
Now when I hit the tab,
it's going to modify the local objects.
It's set to sync about
every five seconds.
So there'll be a moment delay.
It will sync.
When it updates the local changes,
it will update the
Tahoe skiing down here.
And then when it pushes the changes out,
it'll update media assets if
I turn trickle syncing on.
All right,
so I haven't hit the tab button yet.
Now I'm going to hit the tab.
There it
There it goes.
All right.
Good work.
Slow.
Okay.
So let's have a little more fun.
This is a multi-day event,
so let's move some of the pictures.
Let's say that this picture
was actually taken on the 16th.
And it should appear over
here on the date of the 16th.
Hit Tab.
You're waiting for the sync.
There it goes.
Now it moves.
For those of you who missed it,
we'll do it one more time.
We'll move this photo to the 18th.
Hit Tab.
It should sync up here.
[Transcript missing]
OK, you're all probably wondering a
little bit how it's implemented,
so I'm just going to cover that briefly,
especially if you're looking at the code.
So it does use a model
view controller paradigm,
and the models are the
syncable objects in the design.
There we go.
OK.
And we use Cocoa Bindings, of course,
to update all of the changes
that are done locally in the app.
But in addition,
when you're pulling all of the changes
and applying them to the local objects,
that's how the displays
are being updated.
We also used Key Value Observing,
which is the underpinnings
to Cocoa Bindings,
and we used that to record
all of the local changes.
As Toby and Gordie were saying,
that's one of your jobs,
to record all the changes you
make locally for pushing later.
And we also found Transformers,
that is the NS Transformer class,
useful for converting your models
to records before you push,
and then when you pull the
changes in from the Sync Engine,
you need to apply them to your models,
and sometimes when you get additions,
you need to create models,
so we used Transformers there.
We also used Transformers for
resolving the relationships.
So Gordie's going to
show that in more detail,
but the relationships that come from
the Sync Engine are not what you expect.
You have to convert that to
actual references to your objects.
And I think that's it.
We'll go back to Gordie
for more details on how to.
Let's talk a little bit about how we did
many of the things you saw in the demo.
Nancy actually wrote the demo,
so she gets all the credit,
but if I get it wrong,
you've got to forgive me.
But I do promise to do
better with the clicker now.
Okay, I talked about the five main
things you need to do to sync.
Let's just recap quickly.
You'll set up a data schema.
You'll have configuration
for your application.
Then we'll have the main sync loop.
Before,
we mentioned that's the meat of syncing.
For any vegetarians out there,
that's the tofu of syncing.
You'll have data transformation,
and Nancy just touched
on that a little bit.
And then, of course,
keeping track of your data
so that you can fast sync.
So let's go over that now.
Let's look at a schema.
So what goes in a schema?
Essentially, you're defining entities.
So in the example we just showed you,
we had two entity types.
MediaAssets object, which had a picture,
a title, and a date associated with it.
And we also had an event object,
which had a title and a date.
And we mapped the media
objects to the event objects.
We have attributes,
such as the title and the date.
We also have the relationships,
such as the relationship from the media
asset to an event and the relationship
back from the event to the media asset.
Now, I'm being a little bit redundant,
but I want to make sure that we
didn't skip over anything here.
So this is kind of a
pictorial representation.
I'm just going to run through it
from the top just to tell you all
the different parts of a schema.
You start off with a data class.
A data class is actually somewhat
of an informal construct.
It's used to present what
you're syncing to the user.
So if your application has a number of
different entities that you want to sync,
you can sync them to the data class.
You can group them
together in one data class.
An example of that is
contacts and calendars.
Rather than specifying every
entity type to the user,
providing them with way
too much information,
you can sort of summarize it
by naming it in a data class.
As I mentioned before,
you're syncing entities.
So a data class consists
of a number of entities.
And then deconstructing further,
we can see attributes.
These are primitive types that you use,
basically what you would
put in an NSDictionary.
They represent the different
attributes of each entity.
In a contact, you would have name,
first name, last name,
and clearly we just saw an
example in what we showed you.
You also have the relationships.
And one other thing that
we didn't mention before,
identity properties.
The first time you synchronize a new
object or a new record from one source,
what we'll do in the engine is
compare it to all the records
we have from existing sources.
If we see that it's the same record,
we won't duplicate it.
That way, and I mentioned this before,
when you sync your phone for the
first time with address book,
you're not going to duplicate every entry
that you've entered dutifully into both.
The way we do that is by having schema
specify the identity properties.
These can be attributes or relationships.
You might want to scope the identity
of something through a relationship.
For instance, for a phone number,
you might scope its identity
through the enclosing contact by
specifying the relationship from
that phone number back to a contact,
as well as the type and the value,
which would both be attributes.
So you tell us dynamically,
this isn't something
that you're stuck with,
it's not a static description,
but it's something that you put in
your schema that we can use that can
be different for each data class.
For each entity type,
you tell us what the
identity of an object is,
how to notice that, and we'll take care
of mapping duplicates.
So let's look a little
bit more at a Sync schema.
It's a plist, straight up,
it's very straightforward.
You'll have a name for your schema.
That way, any introspection tools,
any UI can be used to look at it.
We'll be able to determine
the exact name of the schema.
Also, the engine has to be able to
identify schemas uniquely.
You don't want two schemas
with the same name,
so we recommend that you
use a DNS style name.
Here we have
com.apple.sync_examples as our name.
You have a set of data classes.
Usually you'll just have one data class.
For instance, with the contacts schema,
we just have the contacts data class.
But depending on the complexity of your
application and the choices you make as
to how you want to organize your schema,
you could put more than one
data class in one schema.
It's up to you.
You have a list of entities and that's
really the main thing that you're going
to be putting inside of a data schema.
So let's look at an entity.
Each entity also has a name.
It's DNS qualified as well,
so that it doesn't conflict
with other entities.
Entity names are in a global name space.
They're not just mapped within the
schema that they exist inside of.
The entities are treated as global.
That way you can refer to an entity in
another schema if you want to extend
something or if you wanted to refer
to a data class in another schema
that you're adding an entity type to.
So you have to make sure
that you use a unique name.
You specify the data class
that your entity's in,
and you give it a display name.
The display name would be used, again,
by any user interface,
something so that the user doesn't
get stuck looking at really long,
weird, disambiguated names.
In this case,
media makes a lot more sense to the user.
Then you have your attributes,
relationships, and identity properties,
and let's look at those.
Attributes are very simple.
I've just included two here.
I put ellipses at the bottom
because this isn't everything.
It's kind of hard to fit things
and I hope you can see this.
Actually, I've noticed in some of the
presentations it's hard from the back
to be able to see when we put code
up or any kind of text like this.
But in this case,
I'm specifying two of the attributes,
the date and the title.
This is for an event object.
You specify the name and the type.
The name is the field that you're going
to use in a record dictionary that
represents one of these entity types.
And then the type is
just simply what it is.
Here's a list of the attribute
types that you can use.
I just put it here
quickly for completeness.
Standard stuff that you can
put into a property list.
Also, you can use an array or a
dictionary as a primitive type,
but you need to be careful.
We're doing field level differencing.
If you have a record and it's
got five different fields,
we'll difference those
fields independently.
So if one record from one
source changed field one,
another record from another
source changed field two,
that's not a conflict.
We'll merge it together.
But if one of your fields
is an array or a dictionary,
that entire collection is
going to be considered the
atomic unit for that field.
So if you make one small change in that,
in one source,
and another change in another,
that's going to cause a conflict.
There are some cases, though,
where it's very convenient to
be able to use a collection,
but wherever you can,
it's best to split up your
attributes into separate,
or use separate attributes.
for each one of your semantic fields.
There's a few additional types.
Calendar date,
just because it's so useful.
You can't put calendar
dates into property lists,
but you can put them inside of a record.
We have NSData in case you want to take
something like an image or something
that's your own object type that's
not represented by one of these.
You can just sort of
stuff it into an NSData.
You can also specify an
enumeration of strings.
This is useful to have a
bounded set of strings,
and the engine will actually do
some consistency checks for you.
So if you want to have weekdays, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, and so on,
you can specify those,
rather than just saying "string" and
then possibly mistyping something.
You can also have a URL,
which is very useful to
reference things elsewhere.
So let's look a little
bit at a relationship.
Relationship starts off with a
name just like an attribute does.
It has a display name.
Now I didn't show this for the attribute
because it wouldn't fit on the slide,
but both attributes and
relationships have a display name.
That way as tools are developed that
can do introspection to these things,
you can display something a
little bit more meaningful than
the normal name that you'll pick.
Notice that the names of the
attributes and relationships
don't need to be DNS qualified.
Their scoping is local to the
entity that they reside in.
For a relationship,
you specify whether it's
one to one or one to many.
We have a one to one relationship
in our example from a media
asset object back to an event.
Each media object
corresponds to one event.
However,
the events can have many objects.
They can have many media objects.
So in one direction we're specifying
a one to one relationship.
In the other, it's a one to many.
We're showing the media right here.
This is the relationship.
I probably should have mentioned this.
This is the relationship in a
media record back to an event.
You specify the target type.
This is the fully qualified
target type of event.
So here we're just simply
specifying we've got a one to
one relationship to an event.
I did a lot of talking.
That was actually something
that's fairly simple.
You can also specify an
inverse relationship.
These are very useful when
you want the engine to do some
consistency checking for you.
If you've set up a media asset to
put a link to a specific event,
you can specify the inverse relationship.
You can also specify the
inverse relationship.
These are very useful when
you want the engine to do some
consistency checking for you.
If you want a media asset
to point back to an event,
you want that event to
contain that media asset.
Similarly,
if you move a media asset's relationship
from one event to the other,
you want to make sure that it's
unwired from that first event
and wired into the second one.
You can specify an inverse relationship.
Now, this is a little tricky to
look at outside of context.
If you look at the examples
that we've provided and you
look at the entire schema,
you'll be able to see how this is
wired up a little more clearly.
If I could say that clearly,
there's a metaphor in there somewhere.
We have the entity name for the
inverse relationship and the name
of the relationship that's back.
So we're saying a media object
has a relationship to an event,
and then their inverse
relationship is from the event's
media relationship field.
This is just how you
specify identity properties.
It's very simple.
It's just a list of attributes and
relationships that are being used
for the identity for that record.
In this case,
we're using the date and the title
of an event to identify it uniquely.
Okay,
so let's talk about what you're syncing.
I just described the classes.
Now let's talk about the
instances of those or the records.
When you're syncing an object,
you have to push up two things:
a record dictionary and a
unique identifier for it.
Now, the identifier must be unique
across all of the entity types
that you're synchronizing.
So if you have contacts
and you have phone numbers,
you can't use the same identifier
for a contact that you use for
a phone number just because
they're different entity types.
You always have to make sure that all of
your identifiers are completely unique.
However, you don't have to worry
about other clients.
Your client has its own namespace
for all of its identifiers.
You need to put the
entity name in a record.
That's essentially like the is a pointer
back to a class inside of an object.
By specifying that,
the engine now knows what kind
of record it's dealing with.
If you didn't put that in the record,
we'd look at this NSDictionary,
it'd be filled with all
kinds of great fields,
but we wouldn't know what it was.
So you always have to make sure
that you put the entity name in.
Now, everything that goes in that record
is just a set of key value properties.
For an attribute, it's one of the types
I showed you before.
So it's just a set
straight up dictionary.
For a relationship,
if it's a one-to-one relationship,
you'll have an array
with one element in it.
If it's a one-to-many relationship,
you'll have an array with
zero or more elements.
The reason that a one-to-one relationship
still uses an array is for consistency.
So you don't have to have code
that's doing is kind of all over
the place to see if this is an
array or just a singleton object.
Relationships are specified by use.
using the unique record
identifier of the target.
Now one thing about record identifiers.
Often when you're using
a relational database,
you can construct a unique identifier
with some combination of your primary
key and your record type in the database.
So you might want to use what
you have for a primary key as
part of the record identifier.
If you do that,
you may not want to put those fields
into the dictionary for the record or
into your schema because it's redundant.
You'll be using them for
the record identifier.
There's no reason for you to also
put them inside of the record itself.
So let's look at what
an application sees.
A user will look at an application and
they'll be presented with some kind of
visual representation of your objects.
In the application,
you've got your own objects internally.
Like I said before,
these could be structs,
they could be objects,
they could be constructed out of strings,
it could be whatever you want.
When you're syncing,
you need to transform those into records.
So these are probably a little
hard to see from the back,
but these are just straight
up NSDictionary's and that's
what you're going to be syncing
back and forth to the engine.
So let's look at one in more detail.
This is a media record.
In white I have the
actual name of the entity.
And then I'm just highlighting
the relationship to separate
it from the attributes.
Very straightforward.
It's just a dictionary.
We've got an array for the event,
which is a relationship
back to the enclosing event.
Hello.
OK.
This is what a event looks like.
And the only difference here is
that it has a list of media objects,
since it's a one to many.
Otherwise, very similar.
So we have a very regular
way of specifying all the
records when you're syncing.
You don't have to worry about pushing
up different objects in different ways.
Everything eventually grounds
down to just being a dictionary.
So now let's talk about configuration.
We know how to describe the
schema for the data in our client.
Now what we're going to do is
we're going to set up a client
description property list.
This is also a plist file.
It statically describes the
characteristics of your client.
So what does it have?
We've got a list of the entities and
the properties in those entities.
Now you might have a data schema
that you're sharing with other
applications and there could be a
whole slew of entities in there and
a lot of properties because you're
trying to cover all the bases.
This particular sync client that you're
writing may not use all those entities.
It might not use all of those fields.
That's fine.
In your client description property list,
you'll specify the subset that you use.
That way the engine knows which
entities and which fields to be
giving to your client and it also
knows what to expect from your client.
So it won't erroneously delete
things just because your client
doesn't pass up certain attributes.
You can specify whether
entities are push or pull only.
Most of the time, you'll be both pushing
and pulling entities.
You'll be contributing
to the pool of data.
You'll be pulling in changes.
But sometimes, for instance,
in the case of an iPod,
you'll only be pulling things down.
The engine can make certain
optimizations in its data store
when you give it that information.
You also specify what type of
clients you want to sync with.
So if you're an application,
typically when other applications
sync the same data types that you do,
you'll want to get
notified so you can sync.
When .Mac syncs, you'll want to start up.
When devices sync,
you'll want to start up.
And we'll show that
for our examples here,
we specified that we wanted to sync
when .Mac syncs and also when each
of the other applications sync.
Here's a look at a property list.
Very straightforward.
We have the display name for the
client and you can also specify,
if I can get this to go here,
an image path.
When you have a user interface
that presents a list of clients,
which we provide for you,
it's nice not only to have
the name of the client,
but to have some kind of
an icon that represents it.
Often it will be the same
as your application icon,
but in some cases you might
choose something different,
something that sort of illustrates that
this is data that you're synchronizing.
So you can specify an icon relative
to the path of this property list,
and that way it will present something
nicer to the user than just simply text.
We also have a list of the
entities as I described.
Here we're specifying the event
entity and the fields that
we're going to synchronize.
I'm kind of going through
these fast because this is
pretty straightforward stuff.
Okay, let's talk about syncing now.
This is the interesting part.
When you're going to synchronize,
the first thing you need to do
is register your data schema.
Now, it's not that expensive to
re-register the schema every
time your application starts.
You don't want to do it every
time you sync if you can avoid it,
but what you can do is start your
application and just register
the schema without worrying
if it was already registered.
Typically,
your data schema file isn't changing,
so all this amounts to is a
quick stat by the sync server.
It checks to see if
there's any differences,
and if there's not,
it actually doesn't do anything.
So when your application starts up,
make sure that your schemas are
registered that you're using.
Then you need to register the client.
Now, I'm sorry.
I screwed up this slide.
I've done this so many times.
Let's talk a little bit more
about registering the schema.
I'm just going to show you the code.
Now, can you -- I don't know
if you can see this,
and if you can,
I'll talk through it a little bit more,
but it's very straightforward.
What you'll do is you'll keep your
schema in a bundle in your application.
You might as well keep
the schema localized if it
corresponds to your application.
Now, we mentioned that sometimes data
schemas are decoupled from applications.
Certainly from the
engine's point of view,
it doesn't make any assumption
that a schema correlates to
any one given application.
If you're just providing a schema in
your application for your own use,
you can keep it inside of your resources.
If you're not,
you might want to put it inside
of a framework somewhere so
other applications can access it.
Once you have it, it's a simple path,
and you make a call
into the sync manager.
Now, I'm introducing the sync
manager and API here.
There's just a few objects that you'll
need to use in order to effect a sync.
And the sync manager,
as the name implies,
does mostly management type of functions.
You use it to register your schema.
You use it to register your client,
as you'll see.
Very straightforward call.
You just pass in the path,
and you're done.
Now, the second thing I started to talk
about is registering your client.
Now, you only register your client if
you haven't registered it before.
So when we look at the code,
if I can get to it,
I'm convinced somebody's got a voodoo
doll for this clicker somewhere.
There we go.
OK.
So when you're registering a client,
you check to see if the
client is already registered.
So what you do is,
by specifying the client's identifier,
you ask the sync manager
for your client object.
If you get it back, great, you're done.
You can just return.
If not, then you'll need to register it.
To register it is very similar
to registering a schema.
You just tell the sync manager
that you want to register a client.
Now the one difference is
when you register a client,
you provide an identifier.
provide both the client description
file and the identifier so that you
can refer to it again in the future,
for instance, to start a sync operation.
And the other difference is that
you'll get a client object back,
so you can then use that to
proceed through the sync operation.
Well, this is really hard.
Okay, the second thing you'll do
when you register a client
is specify an alert handler.
This is pretty straightforward.
We're just doing this so that we can sync
when other applications or servers sync.
In the example that we had,
we specified programmatically to the
engine that we wanted to synchronize
when applications or when servers synced.
We also specified an alert handler that
gets called inside of our application.
So you've got a running application.
While it's executing,
if some other server or
application goes off to sync,
you want to get notified so you can
join in and sync at the same time.
That'll happen in the main
run loop of your application,
and it'll happen just with a simple
callback that we're specifying here.
You should note that you could
also specify what types of clients
you want to sync with in your
client description property list.
It didn't really fit on the screen
when I made an example of that before,
and I also wanted to highlight that.
You can do it programmatically.
Okay, once you've got all that done,
you're ready to sync data.
So let's see what we have to do for that.
The very first time you sync,
you need to do a slow sync.
You do a slow sync because you don't
really have any basis to compare to.
So you're going to push
up every record you have.
After you've done that,
you'll be able to fast
sync the next time.
And we've pointed out that you want to
try to trickle sync as often as possible,
and when you trickle sync,
you only want to push up
deltas to make it fast.
When your application is launched,
you'll want to sync.
Now, when we showed the demo before,
we had a checkbox for trickle
sync and a button for syncing.
In a real application,
you wouldn't have a sync button,
nor would you have that checkbox.
You would just have trickle
sync behavior all the time.
When your application starts up,
it would make sure that it had
the most current set of changes,
so it would sync immediately
and pull changes down.
Similarly, before you exit,
you want to synchronize.
If you synchronize before you
terminate your application,
that ensures that changes the
user have made are not only
flushed to a data file and saved,
but they're also synchronized
out to the rest of the world.
I've really got to figure this thing out.
It's like if I pointed
at somebody over there,
it seems to go.
OK, so we mentioned before that Sync
Session is a finite state machine.
So you have a certain set
of steps you go through.
I want to point out that pulling
changes down is optional.
If you want to,
you can just push changes up.
So when would you want to do that?
Possibly when your application's exiting.
You'll just push your
changes up and quit.
When users quit an application,
they don't want the application
to sit there forever while
they're waiting for it to sync.
They want it to just get its
business done and exit quickly.
So you want to make sure you
don't spend a lot of time when
an application's terminating
going in a full sync operation.
So you can opt out of this at any point.
And in this case,
you would just push your
changes up and then exit.
You do have to execute
these steps in order,
though.
So let's look at them in more detail.
When you start a sync session,
you can specify a blocking
call or a non-blocking call.
A blocking call would
typically take a timeout.
You don't want to call into a blocking
method and then just wait forever
and have your user locked out.
If you call a blocking call
from the main run loop,
you typically want to specify
a timeout around two seconds.
After two seconds,
you're going to get the
little spinning beach ball.
So you could specify an extra
second and hope it doesn't happen,
but typically you want the sync
operation to start quickly or
you're going to bail out of it.
With a non-blocking call,
you give a call back into the engine,
make a call that returns immediately,
and then at some point in the future,
the sync operation will start.
Now, there's a couple of issues
you have to be careful about.
One is responsiveness.
I just mentioned you don't want to go
off forever waiting for a sync to start.
Secondly, if a user goes and makes
modifications to data,
they're going
You want to make sure that
you use the data at the point
the session actually starts.
So if your application decides
to sync and makes that call
to start a sync session,
don't collect any data
to use in the sync.
Wait until the sync session actually
starts and then you can use it.
If you have a blocking call, don't loop.
If you call this blocking method and
it returns without being able to sync,
it actually returns yes or no
whether or not you've got a session.
Don't immediately call it again.
First of all,
you'll just be banging on the engine.
Typically, the reason it returned no is
because another client is syncing
the same entity types as you.
So if you have a phone that's
synchronizing and then address book
decides it wants to trickle sync but
the phone's already synchronizing,
it could take a while for
that device to finish.
So if you ask the question to the engine
to start a session and it returns no,
you probably want to wait a sufficient
amount of time before you try again.
Or an even better approach is to just
use the non-blocking call all the
So here's some code to begin a session.
And notice at the very top,
the first thing that we
do is we save our file.
Now the code snippets I'm
showing you are actually,
they're taken from the demo.
So here we save our data
before we start a sync.
You don't want to synchronize data
you haven't saved in a file because
the next time your app starts,
if it was unable to save,
you're going to be out of sync,
no pun intended, with the engine.
So the first thing to do when
you're going to synchronize,
save all your data.
And then at the bottom here,
you can see that we're
starting a session.
Now I actually committed
an egregious crime here.
I specified five seconds.
I did that just for testing and I ended
up leaving it in the slide by mistake.
I'm using a blocking call and
specifying a time long enough that
the beach ball is going to come up
if it takes more than two seconds.
That's going to annoy a user.
So you typically want to keep that
limited to two seconds or less
when you use the blocking call.
The next thing you need to do
once you've actually established
a sync session is negotiate.
Do you want to do a slow
sync or a fast sync?
So I'm going to show a little
code here from our app.
Even though we mentioned that you
need to do negotiation up front
and we sort of show it at the
beginning of the sync operation,
you can spread a little bit of it out
if it's more natural for your app.
And you'll see how we
actually did spread that out.
Now in the previous talk,
we discussed the syncing modes
and then talked about how we don't
actually have a call into the engine,
I want a fast sync or I want a slow sync.
There's no call back to your
client asking you to do that.
So we're not asking it
what it wants to do.
We actually have a set of
methods that you can use
because it's much more flexible.
So in this case,
we're checking to see if we
want to do a refresh sync.
So we would do a refresh sync in our
example if we lost our data file.
So if we start our example code
up and our data file is gone,
we'll refresh sync.
That way we'll restore
everything from the engine.
We'll also do a slow sync in some cases.
We do a slow sync the very first
time we ever do a slow sync.
Also, we catch errors with exceptions
during the sync operation.
If anything goes wrong
during sync operation,
on the next sync,
we force ourselves to do a slow sync.
So in this case,
we're telling the session whether
or not we've actually reset all the
entity names so that we can refresh.
That's the first line.
Or in the second if clause,
we're actually checking and
we're telling the engine that we
want to push all of our records,
which essentially amounts to a slow sync.
But besides what you're doing,
you're also asking the engine
what it wants you to do.
A user might have gone and said,
"I want to reset every client
from .mac." At that point,
when you sync, the engine won't want
you to push any records.
You're going to be reset.
Also, something might have gone
wrong during the sync operation
from the engine's perspective,
so the next time you sync,
it will want you to do a slow sync.
And we'll see where we ask those
questions in the API as we proceed.
Now we're going to go push changes.
Very simple flowchart here just
to show you what we're doing.
If we want to push all of our records,
then we're going to get
every record that we have,
convert it, and push it up to the engine.
Otherwise, we'll just push up the deltas.
I want to point out one thing.
When you're pushing records,
you don't have to push an
entire NSDictionary record.
You can push something
we call an iSync change.
In this case,
we've got one change to a record.
We've changed the title of an event
to "Sean's Birthday." So I've got
a very small iSync change object.
But if I wanted to push
up the entire record,
I'd have to push up all the
relationships and all the other fields.
And you can see that's
a lot more information.
And that can add up if you're
doing that for every record
and you have a large amount,
especially when you're
doing an initial sync.
So if you push up an iSync change,
you'll save the engine a lot of
time walking through an entire
record trying to figure out
what exactly has changed in it.
Here's our code.
This is a little bit dense.
I pointed out that negotiation
is actually split up.
I showed you a previous slide where
we told the engine our intentions,
but you also have to ask the
engine what it wants you to do.
So we're asking it if we should actually
push changes for this entity type.
We're walking through
all of our entity types,
so in this case, media, assets, objects,
and event objects.
We're going to ask the engine,
should we push them?
There's a few reasons why it
might tell you you shouldn't.
It might be resetting you
from state somewhere else,
or you might have, in configuration,
told the engine,
I'm not going to actually
sync this entity type.
A user should be offered the choice.
You might only want to sync
events and not media assets.
So if you turn one of them off,
you don't have to remember it.
You don't have to keep track anywhere.
The engine knows that you've disabled it.
So when you ask it if
you should push changes,
it'll say no.
If it wants you to push changes...
Then you need to ask it if it
wants you to push all changes.
So I just mentioned before,
sometimes the engine needs you to
push everything and do a slow sync.
This is where you ask it.
Now the rest of this code
is pretty straightforward.
We're just walking through
all of the records,
either every record if we're doing
a slow sync and pushing them all,
or just the changed records.
And we're going through,
and at the bottom you can see
the call to session to push
the changes from that record.
So we're just simply pushing it up,
specifying a unique identifier.
That's it.
So we're going to ask it if it
wants you to push all changes.
So I just mentioned before,
sometimes the engine needs you to
push everything and do a slow sync.
This is where you ask it.
At the very bottom,
I wasn't able to fit this on this slide,
so I'm going to show you another
slide that's the continuation here.
If you're doing a fast sync,
you need to explicitly
delete your records.
So what we do here is check to see
if we've kept track of state and we
have a list of any deleted records.
If we do, and the engine isn't forcing
us to do a slow sync,
then we push the records, the deletes up.
Now why wouldn't we push the deletes
up if we're doing a slow sync?
Reasoning is, the engine knows what
your previous state is.
So if you push up your
entire set of records,
anything you don't push up,
it treats as a delete.
So that's the first step.
Now we come to the fun part: Mingling.
Mingling is actually pretty simple.
You're going to tell the engine
that you're ready to pull changes
and then the session is going to
enter into the mingling state.
If other clients are
syncing at the same time,
the engine is not going to return
until they've finished pushing
all their changes and it's been
able to mingle from all sources.
So this can take a while.
The engine is going to be doing
field level differencing here,
so it's going to be walking through
all the changes that come in from
every source that's syncing at
this time and it's going to compare
them on a field by field basis.
You can call this
blocking or non-blocking.
If you call it blocking, again,
you have the same set of issues.
You want to make sure that
you're being responsive,
so you don't want to go in and
start mingling and waiting too long
for the user and a blocking call.
If you call it non-blocking, though,
you have to be careful.
If the user makes modifications
to data while you're syncing,
the engine is going to be pushing
changes down to you that are
predicated on the state you had
before you started mingling.
If the user has made changes
to any of the records that the
engine also has changes for,
you typically want to let the user win.
So you need to have some mechanism
in your application to keep track of
changes that are being made during a sync
operation and make sure they override any
changes that come down from the engine.
So here's our call.
We're going to make a blocking call in.
First, we're going to build a filtered
list of all the entities.
This is similar to what we
did when we pushed entities.
We asked the engine,
should I pull these entity types?
If they're disabled,
or if the engine wants to
be reset from your client,
it won't tell you to pull anything,
so you may end up with an empty list.
Then you simply ask the engine
to prepare to pull changes.
That's the call that goes
into the mingling state.
Now, I committed an even worse sin here.
Can anybody spot it?
And if you can read this,
you'll see I specified the date,
distant future.
So this application is
going to wait forever.
Now, we actually didn't do
that in the example.
I think I took this slide
from an older version of it.
This is an example of something
to be very careful about.
Here, your application is just going to
go and wait for the engine forever.
So if something takes an incredibly
long time in another client,
your client's going to be penalized.
Finally, we get to pulling.
When you pull records down,
you need to ask the engine if you're
supposed to replace every record.
If the engine's trying to replace
everything because the user said,
I want to pull everything down
from .mac and clear everything and
replace it from there on my machine,
it's going to tell you to
replace all of your records.
If that's true,
don't go and whack your data store,
because you don't know if the
sync is going to be successful.
Anything could go wrong.
The user could pull the
plug on the machine,
something could happen that could
cause your application to crash.
Instead, just internally set all your
data aside and take everything
you get from the engine,
and only when you're able to
save that completely should you
then throw out your other data.
This is pretty straightforward.
You get an enumerator when
you're pulling changes.
The enumerator is pretty much
like an array enumerator,
except it contains iSync change objects.
I talked a little bit about these before.
This is an object that just contains
a list of the changes for a record.
It's often more efficient,
particularly when a record
has a lot of attributes and
there's only a few changes.
However, sometimes with your client,
the logic might be simpler if you
could just get the entire record
from the engine and just map it.
You can do that by pulling the
complete record out of an iSync change.
So you have your choice as to whether
or not you want to use the fields that
are indicated in the change or whether
you want to pull out the entire record.
We walk through the change enumerator.
We pull out each iSync
change with next object,
and then we apply each one
based on the change type.
So let's look at that.
When we're applying the changes,
we're going to use a two-phase commit.
For each change that
we get from the engine,
we'll either accept, reject,
or ignore it.
If we accept it,
the engine will assume that we've
taken it and won't give it to us again,
assuming we successfully
complete the sync session.
If we reject it, the engine will assume,
for some reason, we don't want it.
Perhaps you have a device or
an application that doesn't
fit every field on it,
so some of the fields
that are handed to you,
you just can't use.
So you reject that chain so you
don't keep getting hit with it.
If you don't do anything,
the next time you sync,
the engine is going to push
that record at you again.
Now, after you've gotten every
record and successfully
applied them or rejected them,
if that's what you want to do,
you tell the engine to commit.
At that point, the engine says, "Great,
whatever this client just told me,
I'm going to believe is the truth,
and I'm going to keep track of
this." So the next time you sync,
everything you accepted doesn't
get pushed to you again.
Everything you rejected doesn't
But if you don't make it to commit,
if your application blows up before
that or something goes wrong,
the engine will then try to
push all those changes back
to you on the next sync.
And that's good,
because if something goes wrong,
you don't want to lose all that data.
So let's look at the code for it.
We look at the change type,
we switch on it.
If we have an add or a modify,
we simply try to apply it.
What we're using is a transformer here.
If we're able to
successfully transform it,
then we tell the engine that
we've accepted the record.
Otherwise, we tell the engine that
we're refusing the record.
So in our example, if there was something
malformed in a record,
something wrong with it,
we would reject it.
Otherwise, if the record looked good,
we would accept it.
You do the same thing for deletes.
You take the delete down,
check for consistency.
If you've got that ID for
that record it's referring to,
you just delete it.
Once you're done going
through all of that,
make sure that you save all
the data to your data store
before you commit to the engine.
You don't want to tell the engine, "Sure,
I've taken all your changes
because you've got them in
memory," and then crash and not
actually write them out to a file.
So we're just showing that here.
And then at the very end,
we tell the session that we're
finished and we're all done.
So I talked a little bit
about state management before.
I'll just reiterate,
you need to keep track of the adds,
the deletes,
and the modifies that you do.
That way, each time you sync,
you can just push up deltas,
which is much faster.
You need to save this info if your
application exits without synchronizing.
If you don't save it,
the next time you start up,
if you try to fast sync,
you'll have forgotten about
the deltas from before.
If you lose the delta information,
make sure that you slow sync.
Remember, the most important thing is
correctness after that comes speed.
So I've just got a few best practices
to describe to you before we close.
Sync quickly and often.
We keep talking about trickle syncing.
I keep banging on this and
saying it over and over again.
It's really the best
thing to do for the user.
The more often you sync,
the more frequently and
the quicker you can sync,
the more transparent it becomes,
the less load on the system and the
better the experience for the user.
Your data is getting moved around
and it's where people want it
at the time that it's changed.
You want to be responsive.
It's very important that you don't
lose responsiveness in an application.
Users hate it when they're banging in
the text field or trying to do something
or get a menu to come down and they
don't know why the application is hung.
You want to provide user feedback.
By that I'm talking about something like
a progress indicator or a progress bar,
possibly a status line with some text
telling the user what's going on.
Depending on how much data
your application syncs and
what type of application it is,
if it's a pro app or if it's
a user-friendly application,
you want to be responsive.
You want to be responsive.
It's very important that you don't
lose responsiveness in an application.
Users hate it when they're banging in
the text field or trying to do something
or get a menu to come down and they
don't know why the application is hung.
It's very important that you don't
lose responsiveness in an application.
Depending on how much data or if it's
just a simple application that users
don't really pay much attention to,
you might want to give them
more or less information,
but make sure that you
show them something.
You need to offer choices to the user.
If you go to quit an application and
start syncing and you can't get a session
within a reasonable amount of time,
you might want to pop a
panel up to the user saying,
do you want me to synchronize
your data before I exit?
That way the user has more of a choice.
Similarly, when you start up,
if you're not able to get
a sync session right away,
you might want to do a synch session.
You might want to notify the user
that you don't have all the data,
but you certainly don't
want to make a user wait 10,
15,
30 seconds for another client to finish
syncing before your application starts.
Now, I put this here almost as a joke
when I first wrote the slides,
and it sounds kind of ridiculous.
Don't corrupt the user's data.
I might as well tell you,
write an application that links
and doesn't crash when it runs.
But this is actually a critical point.
Keep in mind that when you start up,
you don't want to have a user wait 10,
15,
30 seconds for another client to finish
syncing before your application starts.
So keep in mind that the data that
you're synchronizing is not only being
synchronized with your application,
but it's being pushed out
to other applications.
So if you corrupt some data,
it's going to fan out
to other applications.
It might fan out to devices.
It'll fan out across .Mac,
and it'll have catastrophic effects.
So it's very important to test that last
1%. Test all the boundary conditions.
Make sure that you handle errors.
It's really critical when
you write a sync client that
you get all of that right.
It's very important.
important to have correctness.
A couple people you can contact.
We have Developer Relations.
We also have Technology Evangelist.
The names are here.
Please also, we're looking forward to
getting suggestions from people.
File radars when you encounter
problems and stay in touch with us.
And don't hesitate to contact these two
people if you have additional questions.
So a couple more things you
can look at for information.
If I can get to it.
Okay.
We've got a lot of
reference documentation.
We've got some concept documentation
that's only available online.
The reference is actually also available
on the Tiger DVD that we gave you.
Also on the Tiger DVD,
the examples that we showed you,
all the source code
is there in a project.
It's in Developer Example Sync Services.
Have a look at it.
You'll see everything I talked
about in as much detail as you want.